
**About this Workshop**

This workshop introduces you to **Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Data Integration** and will give you a full tour of the service in a hands-on manner.

Administrators, data engineers, ETL developers and operators are among the different types of data professionals who can use Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Integration and would benefit from this workshop. We will create a workspace in OCI Data Integration, connect to data assets, use Data Flows along with Integration tasks, create a Data Loader task and Orchestrate and finally Schedule the Tasks.

You will transform and load Customers, Revenues and Employees data into Autonomous Data Warehouse, for the purposes of identifying the revenues generated by the customers and employees handling those customers. We will track the status of the jobs as part of the Data Integration pipeline.

**Estimated Time**: 75 Minutes

**What is OCI Data Integration?**

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Integration is a **fully managed, multi-tenant, serverless, native cloud service** that helps you with common **extract, load, and transform (ETL) tasks** such as **ingesting data from different sources, cleansing, transforming, and reshaping that data, and then efficiently loading it to target data sources on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure**. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Data Integration is a key component of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure that provides a fully managed data integration offering. It is simple, intuitive, fast, scalable, resilient, secure, and managed by Oracle. ETL developers will be able to load a data mart in minutes without coding, quickly discover and connect to popular databases and applications, and design & maintain complex ETL data flows effortlessly to load a data warehouse. Data engineers will be able to easily automate ETL data flows, prepare datasets quickly for Data Science projects, and stand up new data lake Services from cloud context and hybrid connectivity.

**Key use cases** of OCI Data Integration include:

- Data Integration for Big Data, Data Lakes & Data Science – by efficiently loading and transforming data at scale into data lakes used for data science and analytics purposes
- Data Integration for Data Warehousing and Analytics – by efficiently loading and transforming data at scale into data marts and data warehouses (e.g. Autonomous Data Warehouse) used for analytics purposes.

**Key features** include:

- Visual, no-code design of ETL data flows
- Data immersive user experience to boost productivity
- Hybrid execution powered by Spark and SQL push-down capabilities
- Rules-based data integration pattern to support schema evolution
- Serverless execution, pay-as you go pricing model.

**Key business benefits**:

- Easily transform and load data into data warehouse or data marts on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
- Gain user productivity with a no code user interface
- Enterprise class solution with data exploration, data preparation, and data transformation functionality
- Gain value from your data more quickly by having it in the right format, in the right place.

**Objectives**

- Create a bulk Data Loader task leveraging existing data assets to load into ADW from OCI Object Storage.
- Create a Pipeline, Pipeline task and publish tasks into an Application
- Run the Data Loader task, Schedule and run the Pipeline task

**Prerequisites**

This workshop has all the prerequisites provided for the workshop. Also:

- Familiarity with Database is desirable, but not required
- Some understanding of Cloud and Database terms is helpful
- Familiarity with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) is helpful
- Familiarity with ETL concepts is helpful.

**Login to OCI**

Login to OCI using the URL below and the tenancy and username/password provided;
 
https://console.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com/


**Learn More**

Use the following links to get more information about OCI Data Integration:

- [OCI Data Integration documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/data-integration/using/index.htm)
- [OCI Data Integration blogs](https://blogs.oracle.com/dataintegration/)



